My name is Mark Doucette, and
I'm a grade eight math teacher here
at Fundy Middle and High School.
I'm here to talk about personal identity
to instructional approaches,
curriculum choices and student outcomes.
How background of a teacher
would impact their teaching choices.
And my examples would be,
for my my personal teaching.
I teach math, but I also throw in bits
of financial literacy.
Nutrition and fitness, based on
some of the numerical side of things.
And also just to engage students in
some of real life, applicable, outcomes.
Like they could, like,
use it right, right away
in terms of engagement,
this with specific groups of students,
like some kids who, I may not have
otherwise had a relationship with,
if I had not started
some in the weight room stuff.
That's kind of a nice thing.
So I created a club out of it, and then,
some boys that need some movement,
let's just say,
or some more, like rambunctious kids
that need to get that energy at lunchtime.
They enjoy that stuff.
And also the goal setting of it,
which is a different skill.
So we're teaching it seems silly,
but when you're
trying to progress on like, say they're
trying to progress on a specific lift,
they need, where they need to set a goal.
They need to do number
crunching percentages of those numbers.
So I see benefits there.
In terms of the financial literacy,
just some better money choices.
They go home and have conversations with
their parents about their credit scores.
How about a kid ask me, like, what?
Can you tell me, mom?
Like, my mom wants to know
what my credit score is.
If my credit score is good,
and that's my it's like, expertise.
And I was like, I.
I think I could tell your mom
a good credit score, so I don't know,
you want to share that. Right.
So it's like it's great you're going home
and having those conversations.
And recently
I just started doing some nutrition stuff.
And it's interesting to, to,
to really dive into, some what you,
what you assume kids know
about what they're eating
and then what
they actually know is very different.
So, with those types of things that it's
there's numbers and it's math, but it's
also just they can pick it up and use it,
that knowledge almost like instantly.
And then they and then become engaged.
And that's kind of the key,
especially with math sometimes. Right.
So I find it's less abstract,
more real life.
And it works great.
So advice for a teacher
who would like to, to like to use
their personal identities
and their instructional approaches
would be make sure it's something
that you really are passionate about.
The kids can tell
whether it's something you're like,
doing like, like
something you're performing or something
you're really passionate about.
So when, when I teach
and when I teach that stuff, I,
I feel like, I feel like it's a different
there's a different vibe.
Let's say it's more
there is clearly more passion.
And then when you figure out
what that is, it may seem
kind of strange at first to think about
what outcomes you can connect it to, but,
once you get going,
you definitely can see it right away.
And no matter what somebody you teach
la social science, math.
Like, I have a music background.
I could bring that into social. Like,
you can bring it.
You can bring whatever you want into it.
But the key is, I think it's
just make sure that's your passion
and it will just naturally happen.
I think the purpose of bringing yourself
into is,
is what we talk about engagement,
but also the relationship piece.
It gets kids to see that,
knowledge can be powerful,
even if it's like something, something
that they might not be interested in.
Or maybe your your specific knowledge,
like at this school
in particular, we have a lot of,
sports players, a big sports school.
So some of like my recently
we had a coffee house at the school.
So my musical background was brought in
to attract some other students to kind of
let their light shine in a different way.
So I think the
I think, the nice part about
is when every teacher say in a building
does that, then kids
have some, like someone to go to are they
have that champion sort of teacher
for them that they can relate to.
And then it's just bring it's
just humanizing the teacher in a way
or bringing them closer to you with that,
an interest that you can share together.